<title>About Dave</title>

About Me
========

<img src="/res/photos/tv-star.png" alt="[Photo]"/>

My name is David McMackins.

I'm a free/libre software developer. I program in C, Ruby, Python, Lua,
JavaScript, and Java. I also have exposure to C++, Scheme, Emacs Lisp, Vala,
Pascal, and Prolog. Most of my important work will be done under the name
Delwink, a software development company dedicated to creating quality software
which respects your freedom. Check it out over at
[delwink.com](https://delwink.com). You may also find my personal code on
[GitHub](https://github.com/2mac).

I'm a political activist supporting individual liberty and independence in all
aspects of life. My primary focus is in the area of copyright and so-called
intellectual property.

I used to be an associate member of the Free Software Foundation, and I'm still
an activist in the free software community. I frequently send e-mails to the
people I subscribe and listen to across the Internet both to inform and learn
about the ideals and advantages of free software. If you'd like to know how I
became interested in free software, click [here](/stories/fsf.html).

You might know me from my time working and interacting with the Jupiter
Broadcasting community. A good deal of my free time was spent in their Mumble
lobby, and I still pop in from time to time.

Hobbies
-------

I'm an amateur radio operator interested in portable high frequency operation
and emergency communications.

I love vintage hardware of almost any sort. I love playing with and programming
old computers and game systems. I listen to music on cassette and vinyl
records.

I'm a musician, but not a very active one. I like playing the ocarina and
piano. Once upon a time I played trumpet. I also like to make electronic music
from time to time.

I love writing and fountain pens. I write letters to friends and family, and I
keep a personal journal.

How I do computing
------------------

I currently run Debian GNU/Linux as my primary operating system, though I'm in
the process of [switching to OpenBSD](/articles/openbsd.html). This server runs
OpenBSD 7.1 on a Vultr VPS.

My personal computer runs Debian GNU/Linux Sid (rolling release) using the i3
window manager. I mostly use Emacs for programming.

If you'd like to switch to free software, click [here](/switch). If you'd like
to switch on your own but with a little bit of hand holding, 
[contact me](/contact.html).

Social Media
------------

I don't use Facebook for reasons you can find [here][1]. I do have a Twitter 
account that I barely use: [@TheMcMackins][2].

[1]: http://stallman.org/facebook.html
[2]: http://twitter.com/themcmackins
