<title>Switch to Free - That GNU+Linux Guy</title>

<a href="http://www.upgradefromwindows8.com"><img 
src="//static.fsf.org/fsforg/graphics/windows-infographic_share.png" 
alt="Close Windows, Open Doors"/></a>

Why switch to free?
===================

Free software is software that respects your freedom. Programmers and users are 
allowed to do anything they want with the software so long as it doesn't 
infringe on the freedoms of others. For this reason, when you see "free 
software," think "free speech" and not "free beer."

However, this isn't something reserved to programmers; it's something that 
greatly benefits the non-programmer users. Since those programmers can do as 
they wish without restriction, the software they make is often (if not always) 
more secure, more reliable, and designed to empower the user, not the developer.

Free software developers don't make money by selling the software (but they are 
allowed to); it's usually easier to make money by selling support or taking 
money in exchange for making changes to an existing program.

Users of free software can normally get the software free of charge as well, and
they are always allowed to make copies and give them to anyone else without fear
of a lawsuit. Owners of free software actually own the programs; people who pay 
for non-free (also called proprietary) software are not actually buying the 
software, but rather a license to use it. They do not own what they use.

Software like Microsoft Windows is filled with "digital handcuffs" called DRM 
(Digital Restrictions Management) designed to limit your capability. If the 
developer didn't want you to use the software to make money, the license 
agreement doesn't permit you. Free software guarantees that you will be able to 
use the software in any way that you desire.

More to the point, you should use free software in everything to ensure not only
that you get the most out of your computer, but that you are more safe (still 
not invulnerable) from malicious people and programs which would seek to steal 
and use your data against you and/or for their benefit. I am prepared to offer 
you a computing environment that is completely composed of free software to use 
just as you desire in exchange for as little money as possible. I'm doing this 
to empower you, not just to draw in a paycheck. Those I've helped so far have 
been extremely satisfied and did not have difficulty being productive after the 
switch. For details, see the outlines for the different procedures I offer. I am
also happy to answer any questions you might have about using and/or switching 
to free software.

Services
--------

[Operating System Switch](services/oss.html)

[Custom Package Installation](services/cpi.html)

[Windows Application Installation](services/wai.html)

[Fundamental Training](services/ft.html)

[Advanced Training](services/at.html)

[Software Training](services/st.html)

[Hardware Troubleshooting](services/hwtrouble.html)

[Technical Support](services/support.html)

Interested?
-----------

If you'd like to make the switch to freedom, [contact me](/contact.html).

I will most easily respond to e-mail, but I am available by phone between the
hours of 5:00 PM and 9:00 PM CDT during the week.

If you contact me by e-mail, I can send you a digital copy of my questionnaire
for you to fill out, or you can request by phone or e-mail a hard copy to be
delivered by hand if you are of close enough proximity.

The questionnaire will help me to better understand what you want out of your
system and may help you to understand what it is that I'll be doing.

Of course, if you have any other questions, you may ask those as well, so long
as they wouldn't fall into any of the categories in the previous pages.

Nervous?
--------

I'm offering a new service now for people that I can stay in contact with to 
make the transition to freedom a little easier. Click [here](longterm.html) for
more information.

Credit
------

Opening image courtesy of the Free Software Foundation, released under the
Creative Commons [Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).
