<title>Free Distros Aren't For Suckers! - Dave's World</title>

Free Distros Aren't For Suckers!
================================

Within the past two weeks, I have taken yet another turn to freedom, and I'm
having a wonderful time with it!

### The Cause

Due to my activity in various free software communities, my views are often on
display for many others ready to criticize. I often proclaim that transitioning
to free software is often a slow process. They normally agree, but I would 
always get flack for still being in that transition process myself.

Often, I would announce that I had removed some proprietary application from my
system, and instead of "Good job," I often got "_You_ were using _that_ on 
_your_ machine?"

Needless to say, that got a bit annoying. I had always wanted a 100% free
system, but I had to make a transition just like everyone else.

### The Catalyst

At the time, I had been settling for free applications in userspace but nonfree
drivers in kernelspace. My setup was one massive System 76 Bonobo running Arch
for mostly home use, and a Dell Inspiron Mini running Ubuntu MATE for portable
computing.

For the most petty reason ever (the screen being too small for some applications
to fit between the MATE panels on the top and bottom), I installed Trisquel Mini
one morning on the netbook, and it was very fast and responsive. I marveled for
the rest of the day on how good the distro was performing even under my budget
hardware.

This surprise was likely due to a collective belief among the Jupiter
Broadcasting community that the free distros aren't any good practically.

Now, the Bonobo is a gaming laptop with heavy dependence on proprietary software
to effectively run its NVIDIA graphics card. It will run with the Nouveau 
drivers, but the performance was worse than my netbook running Intel graphics.

After a few days living in total freedom on the netbook, I became uncomfortable
using my Arch machine, knowing that on the hard drive was lurking proprietary
drivers that (for all practicality), I couldn't live without. Eventually, the
empty feeling got to me, and I ordered an Intel NUC (I had been wanting one
anyway). When it showed up, I was able to (with one hiccup) install Parabola
GNU/Linux-libre onto the SSD, and I'm still using it to write this article.

### The Future

As of now, I am running only free software on my _primary_ machines. My 
production servers and my work machine are still running nonfree distros 
(including the web server hosting this article).

In the future, I plan to move my production servers over to Debian GNU/Linux
with the nonfree repositories disabled (my VPS host does not offer official
gnu.org distros).

My work machine will have to continue running nonfree software due to the nature
of the duties I have at work. Once I am finished with my internship there, that
machine will come home and run a free distro at last.
