<title>Walkie Talkies Aren't Just Toys - That GNU+Linux Guy</title>

Walkie Talkies Aren't Just Toys
===============================

Or, the viability of FRS radios for emergency communications.

### October 20, 2018

This past Tuesday, the 16th, most of the north part of my town lost power, some
for longer than others. My power outage lasted about 3 hours. However, instead
of sitting around bored during this extended outage, I decided to do something
productive.

A few weeks ago, I bought some FRS (Family Radio Service) walkie talkies,
specifically the Retevis RT45 model, by recommendation of somebody else. FRS is
the unlicensed two-way radio band used by most of the cheap walkie talkies you
can get at department stores like Walmart.

<img src="/res/photos/retevis-rt45.jpg" width="640" alt="Retevis RT45 radios">

I bought these radios with the intention of including them in a family disaster
kit that I am designing, but before I could be confident in including them, I
needed a realistic idea of what they could be used for. Ideally, a radio like
this would be most effective if it could cover the entire neighborhood. That
way, they could be used for coordination inside the neighborhood without dark
zones, or someone could volunteer to go door to door and check on the
neighbors, reporting back home for someone to keep a log of who is either in
trouble or needs to be watched (say, they have a medical condition whose
treatment needs electricity).

So, when my stepbrother came to bother me because he was bored during the power
outage, I suggested that we go on a walk, and further that we should take this
chance to test the radios to see if we can get out of range.

The original plan was to get incrementally further from each other and check
reception, but we very quickly got out of visible range from each other and
changed to a check-in system where we would report when we reached milestones.

This was a resounding success. To be honest, I wasn't really sure whether these
little radios would even have good reception through a few houses (they put out
less than 0.2 watts), much less the entire neighborhood. Take a look at this
map of the longest distance from which we communicated:

<img src="/res/photos/frs-test-map.png" width="640" alt="Distance map">

This distance is approximately 0.83 miles. Now you might have noticed that this
distance doesn't actually cover the whole neighborhood. However, the reason we
stopped there is not because the signal was too weak after that point but
because of some confusion about a landmark my stepbrother had reached, so I
thought he had reached the end when he hadn't.

The communications at that distance were absolutely crystal clear, just like
when we were only a short distance apart. I have great confidence that we could
have covered the entire neighborhood, and maybe even a couple of neighborhoods
beyond.

A friend of mine online did point out one flaw in this experiment: the power
was out! With the power being out, lots of interference sources were disabled
during our test. Now, I did consider that in a disaster scenario in which these
radios were necessary for communication, the power would probably still be
out. However, there is somewhat of a point there, and I'll need to conduct this
experiment again while the power is on. Hopefully, I can do that before too
long.
