<title>Living the Simple Life - Dave's World</title>

Living the Simple Life
======================

### March 29, 2020

I'm definitely not the first person to comment about this, nor am I the most
qualified to explain this phenomenon, but it's had a major impact on my life in
the last year or so, and I want to share my thoughts and experiences.

It's no secret or surprise that today's highly connected and digital lifestyle
takes a toll on mental health. Modern media and social media sites vie for your
attention via articles and algorithms designed to keep you in a constant state
of outrage. It doesn't take a doctor to tell this isn't a good recipe for
long-term sanity or satisfaction.

I've been relatively detached from mainstream media and social media for
several years now, but I've still been very attached to my computer throughout
that time. I don't think computers are unhealthy, but I definitely spend more
time in front of mine than is probably good for me. Within the past year or so,
I've been taking steps to get away from the computer now and then to experience
life unplugged as I did for a few years in my childhood before the Internet
took over my daily habits.

My favorite way to do this now is to go to a coffee shop without a computer and
just write in my journal. I also bring a little sign with me to put on the
table inviting strangers to sit and have [interviews][1] with me. This is very
refreshing for someone like me who doesn't get out very often. I find that I
have fewer and fewer friends in close physical proximity, and although none of
my interviewees have turned into proper friends, it's been very nice to make
some new personal connections with people. As an introvert who has a heck of a
time initiating conversation with strangers, this is definitely a great thing
for me.

Another way I like to relax is by listening to music. Now, I'm sure most
anybody reading the article likes listening to music; it's one of those
universal human things. However, I'd like you to consider when the last time
was that you sat down and just listened to an entire album from beginning to
end with no interruptions and without doing something else at the same time
like using your phone or driving. Have you *ever* done that? Nowadays, people
mostly use music to fill blank space in their lives; it isn't an active thing
except for the occasional concert. I keep my stereo system in a completely
different room from all my computer equipment. When I want to relax, I get up
from the computer, put on an album, and just sit and listen to the whole
thing. I might get up a time or two for a drink, but I make it a point not to
get distracted from the music. Music shouldn't be the background for our
activities; we need to see it once again for the activity that it is.

I'd like to start reading books again. I stopped reading in the middle of a
very difficult book (actually it's not even close to the middle), and I guess I
should just read something else, because I'm unlikely to feel like making any
progress for quite a long time. If you're curious, the book is volume 1 of The
Gulag Archipelago. It's a fantastic recounting of a man's experience in
communist Russia, and it seems like a very important read, but it is absolutely
brutal to get through. Maybe I'll finish it some day.

One thing I did also for a little while and need to get back into doing is
writing before bed. I made a point that 30 minutes before bed, I would get off
the computer and write in my journal until it was time to sleep. The point of
this was primarily because of some research I've read where looking at blue
light from screens isn't good for circadean rhythm, but it also helped get my
mind off of the day before bed. Maybe I'll start reading instead.

I encourage you also to go on more walks if you aren't very active
already. It's really a treat to take in the environment at a liesurely pace
without being bothered by technology.

I realize this kind of sounds like when old people go on about how much better
life was before all this modern technology. I'm not against technology, though
I do have many issues with the way most people use it nowadays. It's very easy
to be swept up in the convenience and stimulation of technology, but for your
own sake, I implore you to take a break more often.

[1]: https://streetepistemology.com/
