<title>Why I joined the FSF - Dave's World</title>

Why I joined the FSF
====================

### April 29, 2014

This is a very important story to me, so I'll start from the beginning.

### Introduction to "Linux"

Some time about a year ago, I was grounded by my father for something I can't
remember, and I was excruciatingly bored. I possessed a little red Dell
Inspiron Mini (a netbook) that at the time ran Windows 7 Starter. With the
excuse that I would be learning about alternative operating systems, I
downloaded and installed Ubuntu 12.10 via the wubi installer, allowing me to
dual-boot using the Windows bootloader.

I played around with it, broke it a couple of times, and got a feel for how life
works in a GNU/Linux environment. At that time, I had no idea the mountain of
morals, ethics, and values that had come together to make such an experience
possible. It's only recently that I learned the huge responsibility that I was
at the time neglecting.

### Linux Mint

Some time later, I was encouraged by a friend of mine (Aaron Murtishaw) to
install a distribution called Linux Mint, which at the time was on its 15th
release. He told me about Cinnamon, and it seemed pretty interesting. This was
the first time I installed GNU/Linux the "right way" by using a flash drive and
GRUB to dual-boot between Win7 and Mint 15 on my main box.

During this short period, I found myself using Mint more often than Windows, but
a driver issue that I (at the time) couldn't resolve eventually drove me back to
a world of convenience at the price of freedom.

### Dark Ages

For quite some time, all of my computing was done using nonfree software. I
mostly played games with my friends. The only interaction I had with free
software was beyond my knowledge when I used an Ubuntu server to host my gaming
community's website and game servers.

### Software Development

An interest in the popular voxel sandbox game Minecraft, particularly its
multiplayer modification CraftBukkit, got me interested in computer programming
for the purpose of creating plugins for said mod. I learned Java code through
some [pretty good tutorials](http://thenewboston.org/list.php?cat=31) on
YouTube, but through my learning, I began developing my own software, and I had
a nice personal collection of programs before I ever got back around to making
plugins.

The main thing that kept me occupied was the development of my very own top-down
2D role-playing game. I had always wanted to make my own computer game since I
was about ten years old and making tabletop RPGs. I noticed that I was spending
all of my free time developing and very little (if any) time playing any games.

### Arch Linux

Around that time, the same friend that showed me Mint was pressuring me to try
a lightweight distro called Arch Linux. I was experimenting with virtual 
machines at the time, so I spun up a box and tried installing it. It wasn't as
bad as he'd made it out to be, so I installed it onto a partition of my external
hard drive and used it for a while.

At this time, another friend of mine was frequently visiting and seeing what I 
was up to. He was very interested, so I set him up as well, and we became better
friends throughout the process.

After a few weeks of not using Windows, I realized it was in my best interest
for practical reasons to install Arch on my main hard disk, so I did. This I did
with confidence, since I spent most of my time in a programming IDE and not my
once-beloved Windows games. Not too much later, my friend switched full-time as
well.

### Jupiter Broadcasting and my Introduction to RMS

By then, I'd gotten involved with the Jupiter Broadcasting community by way of
the Linux Action Show, LINUX Unplugged, and their corresponding communication
media (Mumble and IRC). Through a couple of references that I later found out
were from a LAS interview of Dr. Richard Stallman (RMS), I was led to watching
some YouTube videos about big figures in the computer world. Eventually, I came
across some "Best of Richard Stallman" compilations which led me to some rather
long (2 hours each) public speeches by RMS which really got me going about free
software.

It didn't take me long to start talking about this discovery with my close
colleagues (immediate family, nearby friends, professors, etc.). Shortly
thereafter, I started licensing all my software under the GNU GPL and hosting
the source on GitHub for all to see, learn from, and contribute to.

### Conviction

Some time passed, and I realized both on my own and from comments others that I
was very passionate about the advancement of freedom in the computer software
world. I'd become a lot more active in the JB and free software communities
stressing the importance of freedom and discussing regularly the importance of
freedom for both users and developers.

It was then that I decided it was time to put forth a physical contribution
to the free software movement. It was during the recording of LINUX Unplugged
episode 38 that I officially signed up for the Free Software Foundation and was
given my number: 12889.

### Amendment 1

During September and October 2014, I made the switch to free distros (Parabola 
and Trisquel). Read about it [here](/articles/free-distros.html).

### Notes

By request of RMS himself, I provide the following notices:

1. If you intend on using the web version of YouTube to view his speeches, you
should use the HTML5 player instead of Adobe Flash. If Flash is not installed,
the HTML5 player will start by itself. Alternatively, you could use 
[this](http://audio-video.gnu.org) or a YouTube downloader such as youtube-dl to
mitigate the use of nonfree software.

2. The GNU/Linux distros I mentioned in the above text (Mint and Arch) are not
ones with a policy on free software. In fact, their default kernels are patched
with nonfree blobs (for proprietary hardware support). Neither myself, the GNU
project, nor the FSF approve of this practice. It is _possible_ to use these
distros in complete freedom, but we do not officially endorse them because of
their stance on the matter (allowing nonfree software in the official repository
and by allowing nonfree blobs in their kernel in the name of convenience, which
is foolish and unethical).

3. If you are interested in how you can help out the effort with or without
joining the FSF, you are encouraged to check out 
[this page](http://gnu.org/help) for more information.
