<title>IDAD 2014 Experiment Results - That GNU+Linux Guy</title>

IDAD 2014 Experiment Results
============================

Instead of making a blog post or YouTube video about defectivebydesign.org's
International Day Against DRM, I took an idea jokingly presented by -Gamah, who
has recently been frequenting the Jupiter Broadcasting Mumble lobby, to create
instead two software programs with seemingly identical functionality, but to
have one implement some form of DRM and the other work normally.

As a result, [this](/events/idad.html) was born. It tricked users into thinking
it was a perfectly good program, but they were confronted with an "error" when
they tried to utilize it. The program led one to believe it was attempting to
authenticate with some remote server (why this application would need to do that
is beyond the scope of the experiment), and it would never be able to. Pressing
an available "Give Up" button would have navigated the user 
[here](/events/idad2014.html), where they would find out the real reason it
didn't work.

The results of the experiment were quite pleasing. Most of the participants
found it to be quite clever (as I'd like to think it was), while others never
downloaded the executables because they weren't interested in the product they
weren't really going to get anyway. I was able to convince some of them, but
others were persistent that they didn't want to participate. Their loss.

In the end, the experiment was a success. Some were merely amused at my
cleverness, while others who had never heard of DRM were actually made aware of
it by this project.

I'll certainly be doing another one next year.

Amendment 1
-----------

I never did one the next year. :(
