<title>What's Up? (April 2017) - Dave's World</title>

What's Up? (April 2017)
=======================

It's been 3 years since I wrote [this story][1] about joining the FSF, so I
figured it was a good time to write another one of these updates to catch
anyone up who happens to care.

First, let's talk about my psychological improvement since the last time I
wrote one of these. If you've read the one from August 2014, you'll probably
notice I was in a fairly depressed state and still hung up about my
break-up. It's been plenty of time since then, and I feel a lot better
now. Honestly, I'm a little embarrassed about how much I was dwelling on it at
the time, but I'm not going to take down the entry. It was an important,
character-building event in my life, and embarrassing as it may be, I wouldn't
be the same if it didn't turn out that way.

Since joining the FSF, I've developed a much stronger political identity. I've
learned to think for myself and how to notice inconsistencies in my thinking. I
have a much more nuanced view on libre software, and I'm able to approach
questions without having to refer to FSF publications to articulate my
positions, and I've discovered where I personally disagree with RMS and the FSF
on several issues. I've also found my political leaning to be strongly
libertarian. I can't tell for sure if I mostly lean right or left, and I
hesitate to call myself a centrist, because I find the term is
pretentious. Right now, I'm finding myself going back and forth between support
and question regarding anarcho-capitalism. I've been a strong nationalist for
most of my life, and questioning the legitimacy of the state is causing some
cognitive dissonance within me. We'll see where that goes with time.

One of the more notable changes for me recently is a drastic swing in religious
views. About August of last year, I encountered the well-known debate between
naturalist Bill Nye and creationist Ken Ham regarding whether the Bible is
important for living in today's world (or something like that). Most people
detest that debate, seeing it as a waste of Nye's time arguing with an
ideologue and giving creationists an opportunity to feel proud of their beliefs
via confirmation bias. For me, though, as an intellectually honest creationist
at the time, it was quite different. As I saw the real logic put before me, I
realized the problem with how I was justifying my continued belief in the
Bible.

I had known for a long time that evolution by Darwinian natural selection was
well-established science. I (as many other Christians continue to do) merely
adjusted my interpretation of the creation myth, thinking to myself that maybe
evolution was just God's clever medium by which he created life leading up to
Adam and Eve. However, listening to the debate, I realized that evolution
necessarily requires the existence of death for it to operate, but death isn't
said to occur until after original sin, which means the Bible does implicitly
say that evolution didn't happen. After that, I suspended my belief in the
Bible and called myself a "cold deist", meaning that I believed something did
intentionally create the universe, but it did not intervene in any matter or
otherwise tamper with the laws of physics.

I continued that way for a few months, and my mind was far more open to hearing
people out who had opinions that previously unsettled me. I told my (quite
religious) grandparents how I felt and stopped going to church with them. My
grandfather is the only one to genuinely hear me out, and I gave him my copy of
Thomas Paine's _The Age of Reason_, though he has yet to finish it.

After hearing what many atheists had to say, I slightly revised my position to
"agnostic deist", finding that it was dishonest to say that the existence of a
universe was evidence of a deity. Then, after reading Richard Dawkins' _The God
Delusion_, I crossed the threshold to "agnostic atheist", realizing that claims
of a creator deity created more questions than answers, and the idea had no
real influence over my life decisions anyway. That's where I still stand when
writing this, and I see little chance of it changing.

On a different note, influenced by a slight uptick in violent crime in my
hometown, I finally got around to buying a handgun and getting my concealed
carry license. I made the purchase and started practicing back in December, and
I got my license in the last week of March. For those curious, I carry a Smith
& Wesson M&P 9 Shield loaded with Hornady Critical Defense, though I'm
considering replacing the ammo with Federal HST 147 grain. I also carry a Ruger
LCP II, currently loaded with some old JHP rounds I inherited, and I'm going to
test some Hornady Custom in it to replace them.

I also joined the NRA as a life member, because I think that personal defense
and a means to rebel against tyranny are the most important rights we
have. Without those, we cannot possibly secure any of our other rights.

Also, since buying my first pistol, I brought down the rifles from the attic. I
sold my old Marlin Model 60 and bought a Ruger 10/22 Takedown which I may
eventually use for small game hunting. I also bought a Kel-tec KSG for home
defense, and I tried to get my dad's M1 Carbine back in working order, but
success eludes me. Maybe I'll get it fixed some time this year.

Things I'm up to now: reading Sam Harris' _Waking Up_, adding online
multiplayer to [Agario Checkers][2], finishing my fourth year of school, and
planning to go to [SELF][3] this year, which will be my longest road trip yet.

[1]: fsf.html
[2]: http://delwink.com/software/agario-checkers.html
[3]: http://www.southeastlinuxfest.org/
