<title>What's Up? August 2014 - That GNU+Linux Guy</title>

What's Up? (Aug. 2014)
======================

This will be the first of many future updates about my personal life. I figure
it's been a bit long since I had any good news. The past month hasn't been too
interesting for me, but it's nice to look back at recent events and assure
myself that I haven't just been rotting away for a month.

Let's begin with what I'm thinking about. I decided to write this update after
realizing after getting home from work that today marks exactly 6 months since
my breakup. Which breakup? My breakup. I've only had one. I'll try to keep the
ranting down even though I'm still really torn up about it. 

For those of you who do not know, I met a girl in 2010 on the Internet. We met 
via an online game we happened to both be playing, and we enjoyed the same 
activities on said game. We played together all the time, but it wasn't until a 
few months later when my PC at that time died that we got to talking outside the
game (my spare laptop couldn't handle it, but there was instant messaging 
software). Weeks later, we started to become a little more than just friends, 
and eventually it evolved into a serious relationship. We met in person for the 
first time on December 27, 2011 (that's one of the few moments in my life I can 
actually remember the exact date for), and she stayed for two days (an evening, 
a day, and a morning). At nearly the time we'd been together for 3 years (I 
cannot remember that date), she abandoned me for 3 days, not giving me a word 
except "I'm busy" or "Wait," then on the third day (a Saturday I think), she 
sent me a Word document with a short narrative of a not-so-fictional boy and 
girl who had a happy relationship blah blah blah and then she wasn't happy 
anymore and left. She also explained in that document that nearly everything I 
knew about her personality and values was a complete lie. She had falsified 
herself in order to temporarily please me. I convinced her that we might have
had a chance to still stay together, and after giving up any ounce of dignity I
had at the time, she agreed that she was being foolish. That lasted for a while,
and we even met again on December 27, 2013 (how symbolic), and I stayed there
for a week. The whole time (from the attempted breakup until the actual one), I
had been a stressed-out freak, but finally on the 15th of February this year, I
found out she was secretly seeing the guy she tried to leave me for the first 
time, and I left her that evening when she returned home.

I haven't slept right since.

That ended up being longer than I expected, so let's review July. I learned 
about PGP/GPG encryption (and wrote an article on it). I visited my biological
grandfather in Alabama due to his recent cancer diagnosis and stopped by 
Nashville on the way back to visit my stepmother's immediate family there. While
in Nashville, I had a little time to play with my Dogecoin, and I picked up and
contributed to a project on GitHub, a couple of Python scripts for getting
exchange rates for cryptocurrencies. I showed my friend Drew how to use Dogecoin
this week, and that's about it.

On the note of recovering from my breakup, I decided yesterday that it's been
long enough and that I should start trying to meet people again. So, I gave my
waitress at lunch my Delwink business card in order to give her my phone number.

...

I guess she either didn't get the hint or isn't interested. This despite 
chatting me up more than any of the other waitresses, recognizing me from high
school, and talking about how she wants to find new friends. :/

Guess I'm looking forward to school starting so I can finally get a life again.
I hope to give more updates in the future, since that's what this site was 
originally created for in the first place.

If you have anything to say, [contact me][1]. Otherwise, until then.

[1]: /contact.html
